README.md, before:

# Nether Console

[![nether.io](https://img.shields.io/badge/nether-console-C661D2.svg)](http://nether.io/) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/netherphp/console.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/netherphp/console)  [![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/netherphp/console.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/netherphp/console) [![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/netherphp/console.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/netherphp/console)

A CLI Parser.



# Quickstart

It will take the command line as given and chop it up into `Inputs` and
`Options`. Options are things prefixed with - or --, so they look like
`--option`, `--option=value`, or `--option="long value"`. Inputs are
anythings which are not options.

Options are accessible via their name with the `GetOption(string Name)`
method. If the option was not defined you will get boolean false. If it
was defined all alone, you will get boolean true. Else you will get the
string that it was given without quotes around it.

Inputs are accessible via their offset. To get the first non-option
value that was give you would use `GetInput(1)`, and to get the next
`GetInput(2)` etc. This will work even if your options are peppered in the
middle of the command line.

As for executing things Nether Console works on a series of handlers you
define. These are functions that are called when the input matches. By
default it will attempt to find a handler that matches the value of
`GetInput(1)` - and if none are specified it will try to run the handler
named `help`.



# Example: Hello Handler

Here is some code for a command script, called `greet.php`

	$cli = (new Nether\Console\Client)
	->SetHandler('help',function($console){
		$console::Messages(
			'Usage: hello <name>',
			'if name is specified, it will greet it. else it will greet the world.'
		);
	})
	->SetHandler('hello',function($console){
		$who = ($console->GetInput(2))?:('World');
		$console::Message("Hello {$who}");
	})
	->Run();

When we run that code...

	$ php greet.php
	Usage: hello <name>
	if name is specified, it will greet it. else it will greet the world.

	$ php greet.php hello
	Hello World

	$ php greet.php hello Bob
	Hello Bob



# Example: Handler Handlers

We can also execute other handlers from our handlers. Here is an obviously
too simple use case to demonstrate. It would make more sense to do something
like this when your stuff gets crazy.

	$cli = (new Nether\Console\Client)
	->SetHandler('run',function($console){
		$value = $console->GetInput(2);
		if(!$value) {
			$console::Message('no input value specified');
			$console::Quit();
		}

		$console->Run([ 'run-one-thing', "--value={$value}" ]);
		$console->Run([ 'run-another-thing', "--value={$value}" ]);
		$console::Message('done.');
	})
	->SetHandler('run-one-thing',function($console){
		$value = $console->GetOption('value');
		// ...
	})
	->SetHandler('run-another-thing,function($console){
		$value = $console->GetOption('value');
		// ...
	})
	->Run();

And then running this...

	$ php handlers.php run
	no input value specified.

	$ php handlers.php run whatever
	done.

Basically, passing an array to the `Run()` method is the same as having run
the script like this...

	$ php handlers.php run-one-thing --value=whatever
	$ php handlers.php run-another-thing --value=whatever



# Example: Handlers by Extending Console Client

Of course you can always write a more solid application by extending the class
rather than writing all your handlers inline. Instead of using AddHandler you
can create methods prefixed with "Handle" - so to process the command
`php MyConsoleApp.php build something` you would create a method named
`HandleBuild` for it to execute.

	class MyConsoleApp
	extends Nether\Console\Client {

		public function
		HandleBuild() {
			$what = $this->GetInput(2);
			static::Message("consider {$what} built.");
			return;
		}

	}

	(new MyConsoleApp)
	->Run();


# About Options

All options may be specified with - or -- prefixes.

* `php whatever.php --opt1 --opt2 -o -m -g`

All options may have optional values added by equals.

* `php whatever.php --opt1=omg --opt2=wtf -t="bbq lol"`

Switch blocks are not currently supported. Example, `-omg` is an option named
'omg' not -o -m and -g.



# Console API

* **`public string Console->GetInput(int Offset)`**

  fetches the nth non-option argument that existed.

* **`public array Console->GetInputs(void)`**

  fetch all the non-option arguments.

* **`public mixed Console->GetOption(string Name)`**

  fetch the specified option.

* **`public array Console->GetOptions(void)`**

  fetch all the option arguments.

* **`public self Console->SetHandler(string HandlerName, callable HandlerFunc)`**

  add a handler for the specified input.

* **`public mixed Console->Run(string HandlerName)`**

  run the specified handler.

* **`public mixed Console->Run(array Argv)`**

  run the specified argv data as though it had been from _SERVER['argv']

* **`static void Console::Message(string Msg)`**

  print a message out.

* **`static void Console::Messages(string Msg, ...)`**

  print a theoretically infinite number of messages out, one after another.

* **`static void Console::Quit(string Msg default null, int Error default 0)`**

  exit the script, printing this message with this exit status code.



# Testing

Nether\Console uses PHPUnit to test.

	$ composer install
	Installing netherphp/object
	Generating autoload files
	
	$ phpunit --bootstrap vendor/autoload.php tests
	OK (6 tests, 21 assertions)

Commit message:

add support for single dash switchblocks. -zomg=bbq as z, o, m, with g as bbq.

README.md, after:

# Nether Console

[![nether.io](https://img.shields.io/badge/nether-console-C661D2.svg)](http://nether.io/) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/netherphp/console.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/netherphp/console)  [![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/netherphp/console.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/netherphp/console) [![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/netherphp/console.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/netherphp/console)

A CLI Parser.



# Quickstart

It will take the command line as given and chop it up into `Inputs` and
`Options`. Options are things prefixed with - or --, so they look like
`--option`, `--option=value`, or `--option="long value"`. Inputs are
anythings which are not options.

Options are accessible via their name with the `GetOption(string Name)`
method. If the option was not defined you will get boolean false. If it
was defined all alone, you will get boolean true. Else you will get the
string that it was given without quotes around it.

Inputs are accessible via their offset. To get the first non-option
value that was give you would use `GetInput(1)`, and to get the next
`GetInput(2)` etc. This will work even if your options are peppered in the
middle of the command line.

As for executing things Nether Console works on a series of handlers you
define. These are functions that are called when the input matches. By
default it will attempt to find a handler that matches the value of
`GetInput(1)` - and if none are specified it will try to run the handler
named `help`.



# Example: Hello Handler

Here is some code for a command script, called `greet.php`

	$cli = (new Nether\Console\Client)
	->SetHandler('help',function($console){
		$console::Messages(
			'Usage: hello <name>',
			'if name is specified, it will greet it. else it will greet the world.'
		);
	})
	->SetHandler('hello',function($console){
		$who = ($console->GetInput(2))?:('World');
		$console::Message("Hello {$who}");
	})
	->Run();

When we run that code...

	$ php greet.php
	Usage: hello <name>
	if name is specified, it will greet it. else it will greet the world.

	$ php greet.php hello
	Hello World

	$ php greet.php hello Bob
	Hello Bob



# Example: Handler Handlers

We can also execute other handlers from our handlers. Here is an obviously
too simple use case to demonstrate. It would make more sense to do something
like this when your stuff gets crazy.

	$cli = (new Nether\Console\Client)
	->SetHandler('run',function($console){
		$value = $console->GetInput(2);
		if(!$value) {
			$console::Message('no input value specified');
			$console::Quit();
		}

		$console->Run([ 'run-one-thing', "--value={$value}" ]);
		$console->Run([ 'run-another-thing', "--value={$value}" ]);
		$console::Message('done.');
	})
	->SetHandler('run-one-thing',function($console){
		$value = $console->GetOption('value');
		// ...
	})
	->SetHandler('run-another-thing,function($console){
		$value = $console->GetOption('value');
		// ...
	})
	->Run();

And then running this...

	$ php handlers.php run
	no input value specified.

	$ php handlers.php run whatever
	done.

Basically, passing an array to the `Run()` method is the same as having run
the script like this...

	$ php handlers.php run-one-thing --value=whatever
	$ php handlers.php run-another-thing --value=whatever



# Example: Handlers by Extending Console Client

Of course you can always write a more solid application by extending the class
rather than writing all your handlers inline. Instead of using AddHandler you
can create methods prefixed with "Handle" - so to process the command
`php MyConsoleApp.php build something` you would create a method named
`HandleBuild` for it to execute.

	class MyConsoleApp
	extends Nether\Console\Client {

		public function
		HandleBuild() {
			$what = $this->GetInput(2);
			static::Message("consider {$what} built.");
			return;
		}

	}

	(new MyConsoleApp)
	->Run();


# About Options

All options may be specified with - or -- prefixes.

* `--opt1 --opt2 -o -m -g`

All options may have optional values added by equals.

* `--opt1=omg --opt2=wtf -t="bbq lol"`

Switchblocks are supported, but to pass a value to the last item you still
need the equals sign.

* `-zomg=bbq`

That evaluates as z, o, and m === true, while g === 'bbq'.


# Console API

* **`public string Console->GetInput(int Offset)`**

  fetches the nth non-option argument that existed.

* **`public array Console->GetInputs(void)`**

  fetch all the non-option arguments.

* **`public mixed Console->GetOption(string Name)`**

  fetch the specified option.

* **`public array Console->GetOptions(void)`**

  fetch all the option arguments.

* **`public self Console->SetHandler(string HandlerName, callable HandlerFunc)`**

  add a handler for the specified input.

* **`public mixed Console->Run(string HandlerName)`**

  run the specified handler.

* **`public mixed Console->Run(array Argv)`**

  run the specified argv data as though it had been from _SERVER['argv']

* **`static void Console::Message(string Msg)`**

  print a message out.

* **`static void Console::Messages(string Msg, ...)`**

  print a theoretically infinite number of messages out, one after another.

* **`static void Console::Quit(string Msg default null, int Error default 0)`**

  exit the script, printing this message with this exit status code.



# Testing

Nether\Console uses PHPUnit to test.

	$ composer install
	Installing netherphp/object
	Generating autoload files

	$ phpunit --bootstrap vendor/autoload.php tests
	OK (6 tests, 21 assertions)
